[Analytics Engine] Document new string functions supported by the Analytics Engine SQL API (#6514)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/analytics/analytics-engine/sql-reference.md

Returns the current time as a DateTime.

> ### length

Author: @46bit could you please confirm if the functions should be capitalized.

> ### length

Reviewer: @angelampcosta It's probably best to capitalise them, yes.

> ### length

Author: Also in the examples, right?

> ### length

Reviewer: Oh of course, there's a lot to change. So, since we're having this conversation...

Function names aren't case-sensitive. I think we probably shouldn't capitalise the function names. It makes them a bit harder to read (e.g. `QUANTILEWEIGHTED` vs `quantileWeighted`.) But undoing that involves a whole bunch of changes, and I haven't had time to go through and make a big PR.

I think it might be best to ship this with functions not uppercased, and then later go through and make the other functions not uppercased. What do people think?

> ### length

Author: I agree. Let's ship these not uppercased and I'll create a ticket for myself to correct the other functions that are now capitalized.

> ### length

Reviewer 2: I think it makes sense to mention somewhere that function names are not case sensitive (readers may wonder...).

Usage:
```SQL
length({string})
```

Returns the length of a string. This function is UTF-8 compatible.

Examples:
```SQL
SELECT length('a string');
SELECT length(blob1) FROM your_dataset;
```

### isEmpty

Usage:
```SQL
isEmpty({string})
```

> Returns a boolean saying whether the string was empty. This computation can also be done as a binary operation, `{string} = ''`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns a boolean saying whether the string was empty. This computation can also be done as a binary operation: `{string} = ''`.
```

Examples:
```SQL
SELECT isEmpty('a string');
SELECT isEmpty(blob1) FROM your_dataset;
```

### toLower

Usage:
```SQL
toLower({string})
```

Returns the string converted to lowercase. This function is Unicode compatible. This may not be perfect for all languages and users with stringent needs, should do the operation in their own code.

Examples:
```SQL
SELECT toLower('STRING TO DOWNCASE');
SELECT toLower(blob1) FROM your_dataset;
```

### toUpper

Usage:
```SQL
toUpper({string})
```

> Returns the string converted to uppercase. This function is Unicode compatible. This may not be perfect for all languages and users with stringent needs, should do the operation in their own code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns the string converted to uppercase. This function is Unicode compatible. The results may not be perfect for all languages and users with strict needs. These users should do the operation in their own code.
```

Examples:
```SQL
SELECT toUpper('string to uppercase');
SELECT toUpper(blob1) FROM your_dataset;
```

### startsWith

Usage:
```SQL
startsWith({string}, {string})
```

Returns a boolean of whether the first string has the second string at its start.

Examples:
```SQL
SELECT startsWith('prefix ...', 'prefix');
SELECT startsWith(blob1, 'prefix') FROM your_dataset;
```

> ### endsWith

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

### endsWith
```

Usage:
```SQL
endsWith({string}, {string})
```

Returns a boolean of whether the first string contains the second string at its end.

Examples:
```SQL
SELECT endsWith('prefix suffix', 'suffix');
SELECT endsWith(blob1, 'suffix') FROM your_dataset;
```

### position

Usage:
```SQL
position({needle:string} IN {haystack:string})
```

> Returns the position of one string, `needle`, in another, `haystack`. In SQL, indexes are usually 1-based. That means that position returns 1 if your needle is at the start of the haystack. It only returns 0 if your string is not found.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns the position of one string, `needle`, in another, `haystack`. In SQL, indexes are usually 1-based. That means that position returns `1` if your needle is at the start of the haystack. It only returns `0` if your string is not found.
```

Examples:
```SQL
SELECT position(':' IN 'hello: world');
SELECT position(':' IN blob1) FROM your_dataset;
```

### substring

Usage:
```SQL
substring({string}, {offset:integer}[. {length:integer}]) 
```

> Extracts part of a string, starting at the Unicode code point indicated by the offset and returning the number of code points requested by the length. As previously mentioned, in SQL, indexes are usually 1-based. That means that the offset provided to substring should be at least 1.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Extracts part of a string, starting at the Unicode code point indicated by the offset and returning the number of code points requested by the length. As previously mentioned, in SQL, indexes are usually 1-based. That means that the offset provided to substring should be at least `1`.
```

Examples:
```SQL
SELECT substring('hello world', 6) AS s;
SELECT substring('hello: world', 1, position(':' IN 'hello: world')-1) AS s;
```

### format

Usage:
```SQL
format({string}[, ...])
```

> This function supports formatting strings, integers, floats, datetimes, intervals, etc, except NULL. We do not support literal `{` and `}` characters in the format string.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This function supports formatting strings, integers, floats, datetimes, intervals, etc, except `NULL`. The function does not support literal `{` and `}` characters in the format string.
```

Returns the current time as a DateTime.

### length

Usage:
```SQL
length({string})
```

Returns the length of a string. This function is UTF-8 compatible.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples:
```SQL
SELECT length('a string');
SELECT length(blob1) FROM your_dataset;
```
```

### isEmpty

Usage:
```SQL
isEmpty({string})
```

Returns a boolean saying whether the string was empty. This computation can also be done as a binary operation, `{string} = ''`.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples:
```SQL
SELECT isEmpty('a string');
SELECT isEmpty(blob1) FROM your_dataset;
```
```

### toLower

Usage:
```SQL
toLower({string})
```

Returns the string converted to lowercase. This function is Unicode compatible. This may not be perfect for all languages and users with stringent needs, should do the operation in their own code.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples:
```SQL
SELECT toLower('STRING TO DOWNCASE');
SELECT toLower(blob1) FROM your_dataset;
```
```

### toUpper

Usage:
```SQL
toUpper({string})
```

Returns the string converted to uppercase. This function is Unicode compatible. This may not be perfect for all languages and users with stringent needs, should do the operation in their own code.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples:
```SQL
SELECT toUpper('string to uppercase');
SELECT toUpper(blob1) FROM your_dataset;
```
```

### startsWith

Usage:
```SQL
startsWith({string}, {string})
```

Returns a boolean of whether the first string has the second string at its start.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples:
```SQL
SELECT startsWith('prefix ...', 'prefix');
SELECT startsWith(blob1, 'prefix') FROM your_dataset;
```
```

### endsWith

Usage:
```SQL
endsWith({string}, {string})
```

Returns a boolean of whether the first string contains the second string at its end.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples:
```SQL
SELECT endsWith('prefix suffix', 'suffix');
SELECT endsWith(blob1, 'suffix') FROM your_dataset;
```
```

### position

Usage:
```SQL
position({needle:string} IN {haystack:string})
```

Returns the position of one string, `needle`, in another, `haystack`. In SQL, indexes are usually 1-based. That means that position returns 1 if your needle is at the start of the haystack. It only returns 0 if your string is not found.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples:
```SQL
SELECT position(':' IN 'hello: world');
SELECT position(':' IN blob1) FROM your_dataset;
```
```

### substring

Usage:
```SQL
substring({string}, {offset:integer}[. {length:integer}]) 
```

Extracts part of a string, starting at the Unicode code point indicated by the offset and returning the number of code points requested by the length. As previously mentioned, in SQL, indexes are usually 1-based. That means that the offset provided to substring should be at least 1.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples:
```SQL
SELECT substring('hello world', 6) AS s;
SELECT substring('hello: world', 1, position(':' IN 'hello: world')-1) AS s;
```
```

### format

Usage:
```SQL
format({string}[, ...])
```

This function supports formatting strings, integers, floats, datetimes, intervals, etc, except NULL. We do not support literal `{ and }` in the format string and numbered arguments.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples:
```SQL
SELECT format('blob1: {}', blob1) AS s FROM dataset;
```
```

Returns the current time as a DateTime.

### length

Usage:
```SQL
length({string})
```

Returns the length of a string. This function is UTF-8 compatible.

Examples:
```SQL

> SELECT length('a string');
> SELECT length(blob1) FROM your_dataset;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT length('a string') AS s;
SELECT length(blob1) AS s FROM your_dataset;
```

```

### isEmpty

Usage:
```SQL
isEmpty({string})
```

Returns a boolean saying whether the string was empty. This computation can also be done as a binary operation: `{string} = ''`.

Examples:
```SQL

> SELECT isEmpty('a string');
> SELECT isEmpty(blob1) FROM your_dataset;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT isEmpty('a string') AS b;
SELECT isEmpty(blob1) AS b FROM your_dataset;
```

```

### toLower

Usage:
```SQL
toLower({string})
```

Returns the string converted to lowercase. This function is Unicode compatible. This may not be perfect for all languages and users with stringent needs, should do the operation in their own code.

Examples:
```SQL

> SELECT toLower('STRING TO DOWNCASE');
> SELECT toLower(blob1) FROM your_dataset;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT toLower('STRING TO DOWNCASE') AS s;
SELECT toLower(blob1) AS s FROM your_dataset;
```

```

### toUpper

Usage:
```SQL
toUpper({string})
```

Returns the string converted to uppercase. This function is Unicode compatible. The results may not be perfect for all languages and users with strict needs. These users should do the operation in their own code.

Examples:
```SQL

> SELECT toUpper('string to uppercase');
> SELECT toUpper(blob1) FROM your_dataset;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT toUpper('string to uppercase') AS s;
SELECT toUpper(blob1) AS s FROM your_dataset;
```

```

### startsWith

Usage:
```SQL
startsWith({string}, {string})
```

Returns a boolean of whether the first string has the second string at its start.

Examples:
```SQL

> SELECT startsWith('prefix ...', 'prefix');
> SELECT startsWith(blob1, 'prefix') FROM your_dataset;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT startsWith('prefix ...', 'prefix') AS b;
SELECT startsWith(blob1, 'prefix') AS b FROM your_dataset;
```

```

### endsWith

Usage:
```SQL
endsWith({string}, {string})
```

Returns a boolean of whether the first string contains the second string at its end.

Examples:
```SQL
SELECT endsWith('prefix suffix', 'suffix');
SELECT endsWith(blob1, 'suffix') FROM your_dataset;
```

### position

Usage:
```SQL
position({needle:string} IN {haystack:string})
```

Returns the position of one string, `needle`, in another, `haystack`. In SQL, indexes are usually 1-based. That means that position returns `1` if your needle is at the start of the haystack. It only returns `0` if your string is not found.

Examples:
```SQL

> SELECT position(':' IN 'hello: world');
> SELECT position(':' IN blob1) FROM your_dataset;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT position(':' IN 'hello: world') AS p;
SELECT position(':' IN blob1) AS p FROM your_dataset;
```
